# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

in the console file

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

file property.rb
def save()
sql expression insert



Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

.delete_all
.delete
.save

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

id will be assigned automatically when def save - insert

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

 id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

Upon initialisation and before "save" method runs the object does not have an id value  . We need to make sure it gets an id upon initialisation and for that reason we use the if clause

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

Class methods represent operations on more than one records .
Instance methods represent operations on single records

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

a)by default an array of hashes
b)-db.exec.......value) is an array (of hashes)
  -retrieve first element by index [0]
  -Where the index of the first element is 0
  -the first element is also a hash  where id=key and value=numerical
  -we access the numerical value using the [id] key

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

The first is that they provide better performance. Even though a prepared statement can be executed many times, it is is compiled and optimized only once by the database engine
The second advantage of using prepared statements is that they are the best solution to preventing SQL injection attacks.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

They take id number and address string

Q11. What are their return values?

Both return an object of the class Property
